CEP18 / ERC20 - initial commit (#1164)
casper-network/docs: source/docs/casper/resources/tutorials/beginner/cep18.md

---
title: ERC-20 standard and CEP-18 implementation and usage
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Tutorial: ERC-20 standard and CEP-18 implementation and usage

|                    |                    |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| Level: | `Beginner` |
| Time to complete: | `30 Minutes`|

> Make sure you have installed the software/packages needed for this tutorial.

Reviewer: What are the packages required? Or is it just the basic requirements? In which case just link back to the "install prerequisites" page as usual.

Author: Basic prerequisites have been linked

- A common set of rules for token developers to follow concerning security and consistency. This helps prevent potential vulnerabilities and ensures that tokens behave predictably across different platforms and wallets.
By adhering to the ERC-20 standard, token developers can leverage the existing infrastructure, wallets, and exchanges that support ERC-20 tokens.

Each Blockchain protocol should have one official supported implementation of the ERC-20 Standard as to allow the interoperability of the assets between the protocols.

## Interaction of ERC-20 based tokens with the Uniswap standard {#erc20-uniswap}

By conforming to the ERC-20 specification it is possible to leverage the functionality of DEX implementations like Uniswap V2.

Uniswap V2 utilizes ERC-20 tokens in the following scenarios:

-	Listing Tokens – Any ERC-20 token can be listed on Uniswap V2 if it complies with the ERC-20 standard.
-	Liquidity Pools – any two pairs of ERC-20 tokens can be used to create a liquidity pool.
-	Uniswap V2 uses the ERC-20 standard transfer() function to allow an exchange of tokens within the liquidity pools.

> ## ERC-20 implementations on Casper and implications for DEXes {#erc20-implications}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## ERC-20 Implementations on Casper and Implications for Decentralized Exchanges {#erc20-implications}
```

There exist at least two different implementations of ERC-20 Standard on the Casper Network.

- [Rengo-Labs implementation](https://github.com/Rengo-Labs/casper-erc20).
- [Friendly Market implementation](https://github.com/FriendlyMarket/casper-erc20).

While both implement the ERC-20 specification using a common set of rules devised from the original ERC-20 Ethereum standard, using different implementations of the standard can introduce complexities and potential risks.

The following considerations should be applied when trying to create an ERC-20 Token:

> -	Interoperability – different implementations of the ERC-20 standard can hinder seamless integration between tokens, dApp, or wallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Interoperability – Different implementations of the ERC-20 standard can hinder seamless integration between tokens, dApps or wallets.
```

> -	Project Security Audits – well-established standards usually undergo a thorough security audit. This ensures a higher level of security and reduces the risk of vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Project Security Audits – Well-established standards usually undergo a thorough security audit. This ensures a higher level of security and reduces the risk of vulnerabilities.
```

> -	Ecosystem – The longer a Blockchain network exists, the more widespread a standard implementation like ERC-20 is. Using a different implementation may limit availability of supported projects and may require additional effort for integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Ecosystem – The longer a blockchain network exists, the more widespread a standard implementation like ERC-20 becomes. Using a different implementation may limit availability of supported projects and require additional effort for integration.
```

> It is generally advisable to use a single well-established implementation of the standard and for this purpose the CEP-18 Standard was created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CEP-18 Casper Fungible Token Standard establishes a single implementation of the ERC-20 Standard for Casper networks to avoid disparities and incompatibilities.
```

## CEP-18 Standard {#cep18-standard}

> The CEP-18 Token Standard is the Casper Network compliant implementation and provides the following contract methods to interact with the token contract:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CEP-18 Token Standard is a Casper network compliant implementation of ERC-20 that provides the following contract methods to interact with the token contract:
```

>  - allowance - Returns the amount of owner’s tokens allowed to be spent by the spender

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `allowance` - Returns the amount of owner’s tokens allowed to be spent by the spender
```

>  - approve - Allows a spender to transfer up to an amount of the direct caller’s tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `approve` - Allows a spender to transfer up to an amount of the direct caller’s tokens
```

>  - balance_of - Returns the token balance of the owner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `balance_of` - Returns the token balance of the owner
```

>  - decimals - Returns the decimals of the token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `decimals` - Returns the decimal places applied to the balance of the token
```

>  - name - Returns the name of the token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `name` - Returns the name of the token
```

>  - symbol - Returns the symbol of the token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `symbol` - Returns the symbol of the token
```

>  - total_supply - Returns the total supply of the token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `total_supply` - Returns the total supply of the token
```

>  - transfer - Transfers an amount of tokens from the direct caller to a recipient

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `transfer` - Transfers an amount of tokens from the direct caller to a recipient
```

>  - transfer_from - Transfers an amount of tokens from the owner to a recipient, if the direct caller has been previously approved to spend the specified amount on behalf of the owner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - `transfer_from` - Transfers an amount of tokens from the owner to a recipient, if the direct caller has been previously approved to spend the specified amount on behalf of the owner
```

> To understand how the methods work in detail, it is advisable to check the reference implementation on the [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/cep18). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more detail on these methods, there is a reference implementation available on [GitHub](https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/cep18). 
```

> ## Creating a CEP-18 Token on the test-net {#cep18-testnet}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Creating a CEP-18 Token on the Testnet {#cep18-testnet}
```

> ### Clone and Compile the CEP-18 contract {#cep18-contract-clone}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Clone and Compile the CEP-18 Contract {#cep18-contract-clone}
```

> Since we already understand how the CEP-18 standard is constructed, we will be installing our own token contract in the Global State.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Building on the construction of a CEP-18 token as explained above, we will be installing our own token contract in global state.
```

If you are unsure how to interact with Casper Contracts please refer to the following tutorial: [Writing a Basic Smart Contract in Rust](../../../developers/writing-onchain-code/simple-contract.md).

> We will clone the token repository and prepare the token contract for the deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will clone the token repository and prepare the token contract for sending in a Deploy.
```

1.	Clone the Fungible Token contract from the repository.

```bash
	git clone https://github.com/casper-ecosystem/cep18.git
```

2.	Make any necessary changes to the code for your customization requirements.

3.	Compile the contract to create the target .wasm file and build the Wasm.

```bash
    cd cep18
    make prepare
    make build-contract
```

:::tip

> If the `build-contract` finishes with an error `wasm-strip: command not found`, make sure you install an additional package: 

Reviewer 2: This command is only for Macs, correct? If so, that should be specified to avoid confusion.

```bash
    brew install wabt
```

:::

4.	Build and verify the compiled contract.

```bash
	make test
```

> ### Install the CEP-18 contract {#cep18-contract-install}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install the CEP-18 Contract {#cep18-contract-install}
```

> It is important to understand the costs related with performing the deploys. You should try doing few deploys on the Testnet to familiarize yourself, what costs should be expected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it is important to understand the potential costs of your Deploy, you should send several on Testnet to familiarize yourself before sending a Deploy to Mainnet.
```

    --session-arg <"NAME:TYPE='VALUE'" OR "NAME:TYPE=null">

```

Check if the request to the Testnet can be made and get a snapshot of the network with the state root hash:

```bash

casper-client get-state-root-hash --node-address http://78.46.32.13:7777  

```

You should obtain a response similar to:

```bash
{
  "id": 3323991011802671610,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.15",
    "state_root_hash": "9b43fd7388559c078f363403972cb079d69786259bf6c5cd9cd7adcc14029d74"
  }
}
```

An exemplary deploy to the Casper Testnet is as follows:

```bash

casper-client put-deploy \
--node-address http://78.46.32.13:7777 \
--chain-name casper-test \
--secret-key "./keys/secret_key.pem" \
--payment-amount 150000000000 \
--session-path "./target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/cep18.wasm" \
--session-arg "name:string='CHF Coin'" \
--session-arg "symbol:string='CHFC'" \
--session-arg "decimals:u8='10'" \
--session-arg "total_supply:u256='1000'"

```

:::info

Always be mindful of the `--secret-key` and `--session-path` arguments.
Path provided to the arguments should always be with regard to the current folder, where the command is executed.

> The `keys` folder is not a part of the CEP18 folder structure. Optionaly you should provide a folder where your keys are stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `keys` folder is not a part of the CEP18 folder structure. Optionally you should provide a folder where your keys are stored.
```

:::

> The response from the `put-deploy` command is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response from the `put-deploy` command should look like this:
```

```bash

{
  "id": 5066914343373494745,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.15",
    "deploy_hash": "19853d1569fec2b0fa36e81f2f24bea77ccf039a399071cb7d4b377202a073d6"
  }
}

```

Using the `deploy_hash` the state of the deploy can be checked:

```bash

casper-client get-deploy \
    --node-address http://78.46.32.13:7777 19853d1569fec2b0fa36e81f2f24bea77ccf039a399071cb7d4b377202a073d6

```

In the execution results we can see, that the deploy was successful:

```bash

... 
 "execution_results": [
      {
        "block_hash": "426a8823c1018e75f8c3823d580116269fd272f20e60561dff0565375a95316d",
        "result": {
          "Success": {
            "cost": "140416131900",
            "effect": {
              "operations": [],
...

```

> Be always mindful of the payment amount during the deploy process. If the amount is to small, then the deploy will fail with `Out of gas error`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be always mindful of the payment amount during the deploy process. If the amount is too small, then the deploy will fail with `Out of gas error`.
```

  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.15",
    "state_root_hash": "7706d906fce25dcdadb2a9453f5243a6c72c4444e6c826cf2941157333a48705"
  }
}
```

With the state root hash and the account hash which performed the deploy, you can query the contract arguments.

```bash
casper-client query-global-state --node-address http://78.46.32.13:7777 \
--state-root-hash 7706d906fce25dcdadb2a9453f5243a6c72c4444e6c826cf2941157333a48705 \
--key account-hash-ee57bb3b39eb66b74a1dcf12f3f0e7d8e906e34b11f85dc05497bf33fbf3a1f9 \
-q "cep18_contract_hash_CHF Coin/name"
```

The above command will query the contract for the name. The template for the query is `contract_name/named_key`.

You will obtain the following response:

```bash
{
  "id": -7058786841478812744,
  "jsonrpc": "2.0",
  "result": {
    "api_version": "1.4.15",
    "block_header": null,
    "merkle_proof": "[94526 hex chars]",
    "stored_value": {
      "CLValue": {
        "bytes": "0800000043484620436f696e",
        "cl_type": "String",
        "parsed": "CHF Coin"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Try to query the contract for other Named Keys and check how the contract behaves.

## Summary {#summary}

In this tutorial, we:

> - Explained the ERC20 standard and what the implications for not using the standard implementations are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Explained the ERC20 standard and what the implications are for not using the standard implementations.
```

> - Developed a CEP18 Rust contract on a Casper network and defined the proper arguments for the deploy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Developed a CEP-18 Rust contract on a Casper network and defined the proper arguments for the deploy.
```
